Content
Tesla has become the top luxury brand in the US automotive market – the first time an American automaker claims the title.
 For a few years now, Tesla vehicles have dominated many luxury segments in sales in the United States.
 However, due to the limited number of models available, four to be exact, other automakers could still be top sellers overs – meaning that Tesla models are often best-selling in their own segments, but Tesla as an overall brand is not.
 Foreign automakers, especially German automakers like Audi, Mercedes-Benz, and BMW, have historically been dominant.
 But with recent increases in production capacity, Tesla is now delivering more volume in the United States even with just four models.
 Now Tesla has taken the top luxury automotive position for the first time in the United States and, according to Automotive News, it’s the first time in almost 25 years that the position has been held by an American automaker.
 Tesla doesn’t break down sales per market, and therefore, we have to use registration data and estimates.
 The data is not perfect, but everything points to a massive beat by Tesla in 2022.
 Here are the top eight best-selling luxury brands in the United States in 2022:In 2021, BMW had beaten Tesla by about 23,000 units based on estimates.
 I have been daily driving Teslas for 10 years.
  Many will argue whether Tesla is luxury, premium, or ordinary.
  I really don't care.
  The simplicity of the design (interior and exterior) suits my tastes and needs.
  The interior I find soothing and I enjoy the absence of chaos (knobs, dials, switches, vents, etc.
 ).
  Less is more.
  Tesla's philosophy of quiet, smooth, quick appeals to my senses.
  The exterior is also simpler than most.
  I still find the original Tesla Model S wonderfully and timelessly attractive.
 Teslas are not for everyone or every taste.
  I loved my father's Jaguar XJ sedan, the exterior and especially the interior.
  That car had a beautiful, rich,  LUXURIOUS interior and it smelled wonderful.
  Sadly, the Jag had limitations, notably reliability, mechanical and electronic.
  Lucas is an evil sidekick.
 I have owned and driven Mercedes Benzes, BMWs, Porsches, Audis, Lexus, Maseratis, Bentleys, and a few Rollers.
  IMO, the top of the line MB and BMWs are quite excellent but I find Bentleys are the most luxurious in my book.
  A rich and elegant interior and exteror.
  However, I choose to drive Teslas because they are simpler and make me feel comfortable.
  Many of my friends find Teslas very spartan and not rich and elegant and in a word cheap.
  We each have our taste and our own sense of style.
  Teslas work for me and that is all that matters.
  To each his or her own.
  Happy trails.
 Now it appears that Tesla is the leader by easily 100,000 vehicles, thanks a significant production ramp last year.
 It’s good to see an all-electric automaker taking the position for the first time.
  It’s also special that it’s an American automaker for the first time in a quarter of a century in the US market.
 Interestingly, I often meet people who don’t even realize that Tesla is an American automaker, even though it’s arguably the most American automaker based on the percentage of American parts in Tesla’s vehicles.
 Now, of course, that’s just the luxury segment, but I think the days where the top overall automakers are all-electric ones are coming sooner than most people think.
 FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links.
  More.
 Subscribe to Electrek on YouTube for exclusive videos and subscribe to the podcast.
 Tesla is a transportation and energy company.
  It…Fred is the Editor in Chief and Main Writer at Electrek.
 You can send tips on Twitter (DMs open) or via email: fred@9to5mac.
 comThrough Zalkon.
 com, you can check out Fred’s portfolio and get monthly green stock investment ideas.
 
										Get interesting investment ideas by Fred Lambert									
										ChargePoint Home WiFi Enabled Electric Vehicle (EV) Charger									CEO Elon Musk tells followers on Twitter to be ‘cautious’ about articles using unnamed sources after report.
 Tesla is nearing a preliminary deal to build production facilities in Indonesia with a capacity of one million units, Bloomberg News has reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.
 On Wednesday, Chief Executive Elon Musk commented on a tweet referencing the report, saying: “Please be cautious about writing articles citing ‘unnamed sources’, as they are frequently false.
 ”Bloomberg said in its report on Wednesday that Indonesia’s investment minister confirmed talks with the world’s most valuable automaker.
 The electric-vehicle maker and Indonesia’s Ministry of Investment did not immediately respond to requests for comment by the Reuters news agency.
 Musk last month said Tesla was close to picking the location of its new “Gigafactory” following media reports the automaker could announce a new factory in the northern Mexican state of Nuevo Leon as soon as December.
 In November, Musk said South Korea was among its top candidate locations for a factory it plans to build in Asia for making electric vehicles, according to South Korea’s presidential office.
 Tesla makes its electric cars in China’s Shanghai, Germany’s Berlin, and Austin and Fremont in the United States.
 The latest report said the Indonesia talks include plans for production facilities and to facilitate the company’s supply chain.
 Tesla has signed contracts worth about $5bn to buy materials for batteries from nickel processing companies in Indonesia, a senior cabinet minister told CNBC Indonesia last year.
 Indonesian President Joko Widodo urged the electric vehicle maker to manufacture its cars, as well as batteries, in the country, in comments made to Bloomberg News in August.
 Follow Al Jazeera English:
Another new feature has landed in the Tesla app.
  With Tesla app 4.
 16.
 1 Tesla appears to be testing the new 'Vehicle Range' feature that breaks down how your vehicle used energy during its last trip and while parked.
 

Richard Lopes from Watts on Wheels, a fully electric car rental service in Portugal noticed Tesla is testing this feature in select regions.
  The new Vehicle Range feature is very similar to the new Energy App that was introduced in vehicles last year with update 2022.
 36.
 

Vehicle Range lets you view how your vehicle used energy during its last trip and while parked.
  Similar to the vehicle's Energy App, Vehicle Range breaks down energy use into several categories including Driving, Climate, Elevation, Battery Conditioning and Everything Else.
 

If you're already familiar with the Energy App in the car, then you can expect to see almost the same thing in the app, with a few exceptions.
  It appears Tesla removed a few features to presumably simplify the interface on your phone.
  The app appears to only allow you to view the overall expected range called 'Trip,' while in the vehicle you can switch between Tesla's projected range and the rated range.
  The trip projection takes driving, road and environmental factors into account, such as the driving speed, road elevation, ambient temperature and the direction and speed of the wind.
 

The feature will be available in the Service area of the app and can be accessed by tapping Service then Vehicle Range.
 

Tesla app source code revealed that this feature was coming to the app in a future update, but it looks like Tesla may soon be ready to launch it for everyone.
 

Tesla seems to be testing this feature in select regions and vehicles only as it's currently not available for most users.
  Tesla has a history of testing features in select vehicles or countries before making them available to a wider audience.
 

Tesla likely has this feature limited to select users based on a server-side configuration, which would allow Tesla to launch the feature at any time, however, they may also want to make fixes that may require an app update.
 

What's interesting is that this feature is available on legacy Model S vehicles, which do not yet support the new Energy App feature in the vehicle.
 

This may mean that Tesla is not only planning to support the new Energy App in legacy vehicles but may add support in an upcoming vehicle update soon.
 
Subscribe to our newsletter to be the first to know about Tesla's upcoming features and new software updates.
 
The Tesla Charging Twitter account got a lot of attention last September when it tweeted that owners could nominate and vote on new Supercharger locations.
 

The company will now be counting those votes every three months to determine the best Supercharger locations on top of the already planned spots that Tesla is building.
 

Tesla, which already has more than 40,000 Supercharger locations globally, is constantly opening new locations.
  All you have to do is follow the @teslacharging account for proof of the ever-expanding network.
  However, there is always a need for more, as proven this last holiday season, as several locations reported long waits to charge.
  This issue has been a growing trend since Tesla continues to sell vehicles in record numbers.
 

While Telsa allows non-Telsa owners to use its charging equipment, it only allows people who own Teslas to vote for the new locations.
  The process is simple.
  Go to: tesla.
 com/supercharger-voting/overview and click on Vote on Proposed Locations.
  That leads to a page with a map already populated with nominated locations.
  Zoom into the area and vote.
  Users are granted five votes per three-month cycle.
 

Also, the locations are broken up into four regions: North America, Europe, Middle East and Asia-Pacific.
  North America's last winner was Big Bear Lake, California.
  Florida is currently dominating this cycle's leaderboard, with four locations topping the leaderboard, including Key West, Destin, Cape Canaveral and Orlando.
 

There is another option on the Supercharger voting homepage.
  Users can suggest a location.
  Enter your information and the area where you'd like to see a supercharger.
  The company says suggestions will be reviewed but may be "excluded from voting due to minimum site requirements.
 " However, the new location could be added to the voting map within three months if approved.
 

This method is an excellent way to build out the network with the help of those who use it the most.
  However, more populated areas are likely to garner more votes, while other sites desperate for more charging options may have far fewer Tesla owners voting.
  Let us keep in mind that Tesla has a lot of data on where its vehicles are traveling, how often they need to be chargers and where they're charging.
  Any gaps in coverage will hopefully be remedied in upcoming Supercharger builds.
 

All the automakers released December sales figures and the big story is car sales are down.
  Well, that is if you’re watching, reading, or listening to the usual suspects who’ve been predicting Tesla’s demise for years.
 

The real story is that Tesla’s growth is not only spectacular for the company, but it has completely bucked the trend of the auto industry by recording positive year-over-year sales while all the others declined.
 

Tesla’s year-over-year sales in the United States were up 77.
 51%, while Honda was down 33.
 42%, Nissan was down 24.
 5%, Volkswagen was down 24.
 24% and the list, compiled by goodcarbadcar.
 net, goes on and on.
 

It’s not just big gains States-side but also in the land down under.
  Tesla’s Model 3 is Australia’s best-selling vehicle in the mid-size segment.
  It’s the first time in 28 years the Toyota Camry didn’t win this category.
  Tesla nearly doubled its sales in Australia year-over-year, launching into a considerable lead over the legacy car - the Camry.
  Electric vehicle sales grew by 549% from 2021 to 2022.
 

The Model Y came in sixth for new car sales in the United States last year.
  But, it’s the only vehicle in the top ten that increased sales; the Ford F-Series is the leader, but it’s down 10%.
  The Toyota Camry didn’t just lose momentum in Australia; it’s down more than 5% since last year, now in fifth, behind the Toyota RAV4 which also lost more than 10% in year-over-year sales.
  The Honda CR-V, a direct competitor of the RAV4 and the Model Y, dropped 34% in year-over-year sales.
 

Talking heads and so-called experts are coming up with every excuse for the overall drop in car sales.
  Inflation is stifling growth, people didn’t drive much over the past couple of years and didn’t need new cars, and more economic uncertainty is on the horizon.
  Yes, all of these may be true, but they don’t explain Tesla’s colossal gains in 2022.
  While people may be fearful of all those factors, it didn’t stop buyers from ordering Tesla and waiting months to pay top dollar for the latest cutting-edge technology to be delivered.
 

There is another reason to add to the overall car sales slump.
  Buyers are no longer interested in fossil fuel-burning vehicles; they see the trend toward electric vehicles and the positives of the EV sector.
  Therefore, they are waiting for that new car purchase, possibly for the brand they are familiar with to produce more EVs, or maybe they are waiting for more charging stations.
  Whatever it is, these numbers just don’t fit the anti-Tesla narrative.
  A storyline this company has been rewriting since day one.
 

View the release notes for the upcoming version 2022.
 44.
 30.
 8.
 

Tesla's Model S Plaid is the most impressive car on the road today.
  It's not just that it looks great, but it has som…
Tesla released new Autopilot data just one day after the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) had a…
Tesla has added Chinese communication app WeChat to its vehicles in China.
  They also added handwriting recognition, a…
On the day that the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) released information about roadway fatalit…
The Tesla Charging Twitter account got a lot of attention last September when it tweeted that owners could nominate a…
All the automakers released December sales figures and the big story is car sales are down.
  Well, that is if you’re…
Stop me if you’ve heard this before, but Elon Musk says Version 11 of Full Self Driving will be released in two wee…
Tesla has officially announced a full steering wheel option for the refresh Model X and Model S vehicles.
 
When Tes…
Tesla Full Self Driving Beta update 2022.
 44.
 30.
 5 comes with a lighter sentence for those who get put in FSD jail.
  Sin…
An updated Federal regulation from the NHTSA no longer allows for auto-close windows via the car or an app, among oth…
Elon has previously announced that video conference capabilities will be available in Teslas, but Zoom has now offici…Take a look at features that Elon Musk has said will be coming soon.
 
Tesla CEO Elon Musk recently unveiled some details about Tesla's Master Plan Part 3.
  His comments come from a preview…
We have all been accustomed to turning cars on and turning them off when we’re done driving.
  However, with Tesla ther…The Jeda 256GB SSD drive custom-made for Teslas.
  Get $20 off with promo: NotATeslaApp
Tesla completely redesigned their app with version 4.
 0 last year.
  Since then Tesla has been quickly iterating on its f…The name of the car is changed to "Life, the Universe, and Everything".
  In Douglas Adams' science fiction comedy The Hit…
On the day that the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) released information about roadway fatalit…
The Tesla Charging Twitter account got a lot of attention last September when it tweeted that owners could nominate a…
All the automakers released December sales figures and the big story is car sales are down.
  Well, that is if you’re…
Stop me if you’ve heard this before, but Elon Musk says Version 11 of Full Self Driving will be released in two wee…
Tesla has officially announced a full steering wheel option for the refresh Model X and Model S vehicles.
 
When Tes…View all known voice commands for your Tesla.
 Subscribe to our weekly newsletter.
 TeslaFi is a service that logs your drives and charging sessions so that you can later refer back to them.
  We highly recommend checking them out if you use your car for business trips and would like to keep track of reimbursements, if you like to see how much you spend on charging or if you just love statistics.
  View their about us page and see everything they have to offer! Find out how to become a sponsor and have your site listed here.
 
Although we share official Tesla release notes, we are not affiliated with Tesla Motors.
  We are Tesla fans and supporters.
 

Tesla's Model S Plaid is the most impressive car on the road today.
  It's not just that it looks great, but it has som…
Tesla released new Autopilot data just one day after the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) had a…
Tesla has added Chinese communication app WeChat to its vehicles in China.
  They also added handwriting recognition, a…
On the day that the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) released information about roadway fatalit…
The Tesla Charging Twitter account got a lot of attention last September when it tweeted that owners could nominate a…
All the automakers released December sales figures and the big story is car sales are down.
  Well, that is if you’re…
Stop me if you’ve heard this before, but Elon Musk says Version 11 of Full Self Driving will be released in two wee…
Tesla has officially announced a full steering wheel option for the refresh Model X and Model S vehicles.
 
When Tes…
Tesla Full Self Driving Beta update 2022.
 44.
 30.
 5 comes with a lighter sentence for those who get put in FSD jail.
  Sin…
An updated Federal regulation from the NHTSA no longer allows for auto-close windows via the car or an app, among oth…
View the release notes for the upcoming version 2022.
 44.
 30.
 8.
 

Tesla has reportedly started testing a new feature for its fleet: the ability to connect to ISP provided Wi-Fi netwo…Take a look at features that Elon Musk has said will be coming soon.
 CAUTION: Please do your own research when it comes to best tires for your location.
 
How to know what Tires you have o…
Franz von Holzhausen appeared on Spike's Car Radio to discuss the upcoming Roadster, the Cybertruck, and more about Tes…
There are some people who think they’re smarter than the people who write the software for their Tesla.
  They even thi…
Teslas offer numerous easter eggs.
  While most of them are fun to try, Santa Mode is easily one of the most popular and …The best Tesla Model 3 and Model Y Wireless Phone Charger — now, even better.
  Get $10 off with promo: NotATeslaApp10View all known voice commands for your Tesla.
 Subscribe to our weekly newsletter.
 
Copyright © HT Media Limited 
All rights reserved.
 

Tesla Model Y is the most successful model in terms of sales perspective for Tesla and the electric car may soon become the world's best-selling car.
  Tesla CEO Elon Musk in the annual shareholder meeting shared that the Model Y EV will become the world's best-selling vehicle from a revenue point of view this year.
  He also added that the Model Y electric car will become the world's number one vehicle when it comes to overall sales volume next year.
 
Presently, Toyota Corolla is the highest-selling vehicle around the globe.
  According to reports, last year around 11,50,000 units of Toyota Corolla were sold.
  Tesla, on the other side, reached a total of 9,36,222 units in sales last year.
  However, the EV company has been increasing its sales volume year on year and may sell more than 1.
 3 million cars in 2022.
  Tesla has been maintaining its sales momentum despite the ongoing supply chain blockages.
 
Also Read : Price and specs of Tesla Cybertruck will change, says Elon Musk )
As soon as these hiccups in the supply chain ease down and Tesla's Giga Texas and Giga Austin start running at full capacity, it is being expected that Tesla's Model Y EV may win the race of overall volume sales with the maximum number.
 
Also Read : Tesla in trouble, may have falsely advertised Autopilot )
Tesla introduced the Model Y electric car in 2020.
  Before bringing in the car, Tesla head Musk predicted that the vehicle will become more popular as its demand will be twice higher compared to the demand for the Telsa Model 3.
  The latter was already the best-selling EV at that time.
  In 2016, Musk predicted the demand for Model Y will range between 500,000 to 1 million units per year and this forecast is on the track to coming true.
 
Currently, Tesla is exclusively producing the Model Y at its Texas and Berlin Gigafactory.
  By the end of the year, it is expected that the EV company will be able to manufacture over one million Model Y vehicles annually.
 






Copyright © 2022 HT AutoNov 28 (Reuters) - Tesla (TSLA.
 O) is developing a revamped version of Model 3, according to four people with knowledge of the effort, as the top EV maker aims to cut production costs and boost the appeal of the five-year-old electric sedan.
 One focus of the redesign codenamed "Highland" is to reduce the number of components and complexity in the interior of the Model 3 while focusing on features that Tesla buyers value, including the display, according to the people, who asked not to be named because the revamp has not been announced.
 The previously unreported redesign comes as the electric sedan faces increased competition from models from the likes of China's BYD (002594.
 SZ), Hyundai (005380.
 KS) and coming releases from other major automakers.
 The revamp of the battery-powered sedan, which could also include some changes to the Model 3’s exterior and powertrain performance, will go into production at Tesla’s factory in Shanghai and the company’s Fremont, California plant, two of the people said.
  Tesla’s Shanghai Gigafactory will put the redesigned Model 3 into production in the third quarter of 2023, they said.
 It was not clear when production would start at the Fremont plant or how large a cost savings Tesla would achieve from the redesign as it works with suppliers.
 The effort spotlights an approach to vehicle development pioneered by Tesla and now being copied by other automakers, including Toyota Motor (7203.
 T), that removes complexity – and cost – in production.
 It is also an example of a key project at Tesla that has rolled ahead even as Chief Executive Elon Musk has focused on his troubled acquisition of Twitter in recent months, an area of concern for Tesla investors.
 Tesla did not respond to a written request for comment from Reuters.
 The redesign for the Model 3 builds on the revamp of the Model S -- Tesla’s premium EV sedan -- that was released last year.
  That redesign added an airplane-style yoke in place of a traditional steering wheel and removed buttons and traditional air vents as part of a minimalist interior where the centerpiece is a 17-inch electronic display.
 The Model 3, Tesla’s cheapest EV starting at just under $47,000 in the United States, had been the automaker’s best-seller but is being overtaken by the Model Y crossover.
  With only four models in production, styling changes to any part of Tesla’s lineup carry an outsized importance compared to established automakers.
 Ed Kim, president of AutoPacific Group, which tracks market trends and production, said the current Model 3 has already been updated from the version that first went on sale in 2017 because of the way Tesla updates battery performance, information and entertainment options through software, even if it still looks the same.
 [1/2] A Tesla Model 3 sedan, its first car aimed at the mass market, is displayed during its launch in Hawthorne, California, U.
 S.
  March 31, 2016.
   REUTERS/Joe White -/File Photo“Having said that, consumers still tend to equate visual changes with newness,” he said.
  “Tesla knows visually tangible changes are in order.
 ”“The upcoming changes that potential customers can see and feel will be very important in ensuring that EV customers still have Tesla at the top of their minds as truly excellent alternatives to Tesla are starting to flood the market,” he said.
 Musk has pushed a simplified approach to design and production at Tesla that the Highland project extends, said the people with knowledge of the development.
 Tesla has pioneered the use of massive casting machines known as Giga Press and built by IDRA Group in Italy to make single, larger pieces of a vehicle in assembly, reducing cost and speeding production.
  It has also designed a structural battery pack that does away with more expensive modules.
 Musk has said Tesla is looking to drive costs down through simplification and working on a small-car platform that would be half the cost of the Model 3.
 "Over and over, we found parts that are not needed.
  They were put in there just in case or by mistake.
  We eliminated so many parts from a car that did nothing," Musk said in an interview at a Baron Funds conference earlier in the month.
 The approach is part of what has made Tesla the most profitable electric vehicle maker while many rivals are still running at a loss.
  In the third quarter, Tesla made a profit of just over $9,500 for every car sold, compared to roughly $1,300 for Toyota, according to disclosures by both companies.
 The revamp of the Model 3 comes at a time when sales in China, its second-largest market after the United States, are under pressure.
  Sales for the Model 3 in China fell 9% in the first ten months from a year earlier, while BYD's Qin and Han electric sedans outsold the Model 3, according to China Passenger Car Association.
 To boost sales, Tesla cut prices for Model 3 and Model Y in China by as much as 9% in October and offered an additional rebate for buyers who took immediate delivery.
 Sam Fiorani, who tracks Tesla and industry-wide production at Auto Forecast Solutions, said the upcoming changes to the Model 3, which he understood were coming, showed the power of Tesla’s approach in taking out complexity.
 “They are always looking for ways to make EVs profitable, and more profitable,” he said.
 Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
 Chinese automaker Seres Group has cut starting prices for its Aito electric cars by 30,000 yuan ($4,460) from Friday, following price cuts by Tesla last week and fuelling expectations of a wider price war.
 Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day.
  Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
 Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
 The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
 The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
  Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.
  Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and insights from worldwide sources and experts.
 Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
 All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes.
  See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
 © 2022 Reuters.
  All rights reservedAfter Tesla’s market capitalisation swept past that of Toyota, then the world’s most valuable car company, in the summer of 2020, devoted fans and incredulous sceptics deployed a new unit of measurement.
  As the electric-vehicle (EV) champion’s share price rose, its worth was couched in terms of the combined value of the next two, then five, then ten biggest carmakers.
  A year ago Tesla’s market value surpassed $1.
 2trn, more than most other car companies put together.
  Since then it has lost 71% of that—a sum exceeding the value of most of the industry.
  The fortune of its mercurial boss, Elon Musk, has shrivelled by more than $200bn as a result.
 Your browser does not support the <audio> element.
 The latest blow came on January 3rd, after Tesla missed analysts’ expectations for deliveries for the third quarter in a row and reported that the gap between production and deliveries had grown, suggesting softening demand for its EVs.
  It lost 12% of its value—roughly $50bn, or one Ford Motor Company—in a day.
  Even bullish investors now doubt that Mr Musk will fulfil his promise of making 20m cars a year by 2030, or that Tesla’s ”Autopilot” is close to becoming a world-changing fully autonomous driving system.
  Yet the main reason for the market’s recalibration of Tesla’s prospects is a dawning realisation that the company is chiefly a carmaker—and that its boss is not superhuman.
 Mr Musk has always regarded his company as a tech firm, a peer of digital giants like Alphabet, Apple or Meta, not of old-economy metal-bashers such as Toyota or Volkswagen.
  For a time, so did the market—first as tech shares soared amid the pandemic-era boom in all things digital, then as they slumped last year, after their growth began to slow and higher interest rates made their promised future profits look less valuable today.
  In the past few months, however, Tesla’s share price has suffered a sharper correction than big tech.
  This has coincided with its more mundane tribulations as a car business.
  Having managed to avoid the worst of the pandemic supply-chain disruptions, Tesla has been caught up in China’s chaotic retreat from the zero-covid policy; its big factory in Shanghai has been hit by virus-related shutdowns.
  And having set the course for the industry’s EV transition, it now faces plenty of competition from established rivals and a host of newcomers it inspired.
  Days after Tesla reported the disappointing figures, Volkswagen unveiled its id.
 7, a challenger to Tesla’s entry-level Model 3 saloon.
  EV-buyers, for their part, are becoming less willing than early adopters to overlook Tesla’s questionable build quality and the interior of a much cheaper car.
  And the natural Tesla-owners among the wealthy progressive set are less prepared to overlook Mr Musk’s libertarian antics at Twitter, which he bought in October and has mismanaged with gusto—especially now that they have plenty of conscience-salving EV alternatives to choose from.
 Tesla is, in other words, no longer the only game in town—and certainly no tech behemoth.
  As EV-makers go, though, it still looks impressive.
  In 2022 it delivered 1.
 3m cars, 40% more than the year before, and opened two new assembly plants.
  It is working on a smaller, cheaper car and this year will start to deliver its long-awaited Cybertruck pick-up.
  And it is still worth some $360bn—about as much as the next three biggest carmakers combined.
  ■To stay on top of the biggest stories in business and technology, sign up to the Bottom Line, our weekly subscriber-only newsletter.
 This article appeared in the Business section of the print edition under the headline "The Tesla conundrum"Discover stories from this section and more in the list of contents It will be more high-tech—and more AsianMonitoring human-rights and environmental standards across their suppliers could have perverse consequencesRolls-Royce and Ferrari are at full throttlePublished since September 1843 to take part in “a severe contest between intelligence, which presses forward, and an unworthy, timid ignorance obstructing our progress.
 ” Copyright © The Economist Newspaper Limited 2023.
  All rights reserved.
 