Beautt











Explore



Sign in
e-paper Thursday, 12 January 2023










Stocks






Mutual Funds






News

















Home
Latest
News
Markets
Premium
Money
Mutual Fund
Industry
Companies
Technology
Opinion
Web Stories




Sign In
My Account
SubscribeSearchMy Readse-paperNew Notifications Newsletters IFSC Code FinderNew
 Web StoriesMintGenie For You

SME





Top Sections   News   Companies      News   Start-ups   Company Results   People     Technology      Gadgets   Tech Reviews   App News   Foldable Smartphones   5G Tech     Markets      Stock Markets   Commodities   Mark To Market   IPO   Live Blog     Money      Personal Finance   Q&A   Opinion     Photos   Mutual Funds      Mint 50 - Top Mutual Funds   News     Insurance   Lounge   Opinion      Views   Columns   Blogs     Budget 2023      Budget News   Budget Expectations   Budget Videos   Opinion     Auto News   Sports   Industry      Banking   Infotech   Infrastructure   Agriculture   Manufacturing   Energy   Retail     Videos      India Investment Summit   Annual Banking Conclave   Mint Explainers   Market Analysis   Why Not Mint Money   Business of Entertainment   Long Story Capsule   Mint Views    Start-Up Diaries   Money With Monika   Mint Insight   Digital Gurus   Brand Masters     Politics   Education   Impact Feature   Brand Stories  Podcast Explore Mint  About UsMint Authors NewContact Us SITEMAP Terms of Use Subscriber - Terms of Use Cookie Policy Print Subscription Privacy Policy Disclaimer Mint Code Code of ethics Mint Apps  Copyright © HT Digital Streams Limited All rights reserved.











  Home /                                              Opinion /                          Columns /  The Tesla-versus-BYD rivalry is far fuzzier than it may seem  Mint Curator     


The Tesla-versus-BYD rivalry is far fuzzier than it may seem




Premium
Tesla and BYD have market strategies that differ sharply in China (Photo: Reuters)


4 min read
. Updated: 12 Jan 2023, 12:13 AM ISTAnjani Trivedi( with inputs from  Bloomberg ) All electric vehicles are not the same, nor are their makers
Read Full Story



       All electric vehicles are not the same, nor are their makers. Investors lose nuance by dumping these new-age businesses into one basket, regardless. The favourite rivalry these days is Tesla versus BYD. Looking for similarities between the two has been pronounced after the latter’s vehicle sales surpassed the former’s in 2022 in China. The world’s largest electric-car makers going head-to-head in the world’s No. 2 economy, competing for the top spot—what’s not to compare?          Plenty, actually. Start with the basics. In 
December, BYD sold 235,197 vehicles in China. Of those, 122,659 were plug-in hybrids and the rest were battery electrics, or BEVs. It sold over 900,000 of each type in 2022. Tesla made 55,796 BEVs in China last month and a total of over 700,000 for the year.Essentially, they compete in what investors would call a product segment—a slice of what the company does. Here’s the thing: Hybrids and BEVs run on different technologies and power-trains. The cost of the car (including owning it) changes as does the choice between efficiency, 
range and performance. Hybrids can be as much as half the price, too. The merits of one versus the other is a separate debate. Critics say plug-ins aren’t even green cars. The likes of Toyota, for instance, say hybrids lower emissions while being affordable. They are a compliance solution. Sweeping parallels can’t be made.
TRENDING STORIESSee All
   Premium

        Paint companies pause price hikes as cost inflation woe ...
      Premium

        Paint companies pause price hikes as cost inflation woe ...
      Premium

        Singapore tightens rules on executive pay disclosure, b ...
      Premium

        'Covid positive air passengers show presence of BF.7 va ...

   Next, BYD and Tesla employ distinct strategies, largely because they have starkly different business models. It isn’t as simple as which one can churn out more vehicles faster. BYD started out as a battery company that now also makes and sells cars. It has secured access to heaps of raw materials required to make EVs and batteries. It has a firm grip on the supply chain and has moved toward a more vertically integrated model while nailing the technology. Despite Elon Musk’s chat about owning lithium mines, Tesla is still reliant on its supply network in China. It gets power-packs from the world’s largest maker, Contemporary Amperex Technology Co, and is tapping BYD as well.        Viewed through that lens, their opposite moves in recent months make sense. BYD and Tesla altered their strategies following the withdrawal of decades-old EV subsidies in China at the end of 2022. BYD upped the prices of its vehicles and released a high-end line of EVs that could cost over a 1 million yuan ($147,721). Tesla, meanwhile, slashed prices and took Chinese lockdowns as a chance to roll back production. It also introduced consumer incentives. Some may attribute this to a demand slowdown, rising competition or even overcapacity.Tesla seems to have taken advantage of a weakness in prices for some raw materials and components that have been sky-high in recent months in China. It doesn’t have supply locked up, like BYD does. Lowering vehicle prices potentially indicates an intent to tap rising demand for electric cars priced below 300,000 yuan and destock. Sales are expected to grow 50% in tier 3 and 4 Chinese cities where incomes are lower. The firm is revamping and simplifying its Model 3 to lower production costs, and is expected to release two new models this year. Call 
it a switch to a more mass-market approach.    BYD, though, has turned to the higher end. Along with popular offerings priced between 100,000 and 200,000 yuan, it wants to break into first- and second-tier cities where demand for luxury, homegrown products will only grow. With “common prosperity" in the air, few want to be seen driving a Porsche electric SUV on the roads of Beijing these days. Hybrid sales have grown steadily—and are expected to stay strong—since they were included in government subsidy lists.    We can debate which approach is best, or who makes the better product. Still, for investors, all this means the calculus of earnings growth expectations, margins and operating costs is vastly different.    Now that companies are starting to show how much they can actually manufacture (if at all), it’s worth taking a deeper look. Last week, as Tesla slashed its vehicle prices, stocks of other new-age EV makers fell. Companies like Li Auto are bunched with EVs but are they really that? The Li ONE, for instance, has a battery backed by a so-called range extension system, which is really a fuel-efficient internal combustion engine. Put simply, a battery being helped along by a gas tank. Nio is increasingly pushing a battery swapping and leasing model, which means the core value of the car doesn’t lie in the power-pack as it does for other EVs.    Unlike the traditional auto industry, where all cars were 
just four-wheeled gas-guzzlers with varying sizes of engines, EVs are an evolving technology and present a much more differentiated case. Manufacturing them isn’t like making the 
batteries they use. As green cars become more mainstream, it’s time for a reassessment to avoid unpleasant surprises.  MORE FROM THIS SECTIONSee All       Premium Premium Advertisers can survive the end of behavioural aiming      Premium Premium America’s missing ambassador to India is straining bila ...      Premium Premium Glued to handsets      Premium 
Premium Online platforms may have to rethink their parity deals
 Anjani Trivedi is a Bloomberg Opinion columnist.



                Catch all the Business News, Market News, Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint.
        Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates.

More
Less






OPEN IN APP




Recommended For You




Trending Stocks


                        Feedback    Select your Category  Query Suggestion    Your Message

         Connect with us:                           CATEGORIES   Money   Markets   Companies   Mutual Funds   Industries   News   Cryptocurrency   Auto   Technology   Budget 2022 
    TRENDING NOW   Stock Market LIVE   Golden Globe Awards 2023   Auto Expo 2023    Sah Polymers IPO   Budget 2023    Indiabulls Housing Finance   Trump CFO Weisselberg   UAE Plastic Ban    Cryptocurrency Prices   Personal Finance Trends   Jet Airways CEO     LATEST STORIES   Paint companies pause price hikes as cost infl...   Paint companies pause price hikes as cost infl...   Singapore tightens rules on executive pay disc...   'Covid positive air passengers show presence o...   Big demand in China for India-made Covid meds:...   
Vedanta-Foxconn chip plant may get nod first   ICAI plans guidelines in bid to check gaps in ...   To retain talent, Wipro doles out record numbe...   Pharma body pitches for tax 
sops, fixing duty ...   Why building an app is now child’s play     DOWNLOAD APP Download the Mint app and read premium stories          About Us   Contact Us   Terms Of Use   Privacy Policy   RSS                                  Copyright © 2022 HT Digital Streams Ltd All Right Reserved
No NetworkServer IssueInternet Not AvailableWait for it…Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.Yes, Continue
You are just one step away from creating your watchlist!Login NowWait for it…Oops! Looks like you have exceeded the limit to bookmark the image. Remove some to bookmark this image.  Your session has expired, please login again.Yes, Continue
Congratulations!You are now subscribed to our newsletters. In case you can’t find any email from our side, please check the spam folder.















Login to enjoy exclusive benefits!

Unlocked premium articles
Personalized news
Market Watchlist
Insightful Newsletters & more

Login Now





×



  ×           Get alerts on WhatsApp  Set Preferences My ReadsWatchlistFeedbackRedeem a Gift CardLogout




      Subscribe to continue This is a subscriber only feature Subscribe Now to get daily updates on WhatsApp   











