Content
PM Modi will have extensive discussions with other G20 leaders on key issues of global concern, such as reviving global growth, food & energy security, environment, health, and digital transformation      NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will leave for Indonesia on Monday to attend the G20 summit on November 15-16 be held in Bali.
  The summit is being haired by Indonesia.
     According to a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office, “PM Modi will have extensive discussions with other G20 leaders on key issues of global concern, such as reviving global growth, food & energy security, environment, health, and digital transformation.
 " He will participate in three key sessions dealing with health, digital transformation and food and energy security.
    The three main focus areas for the G20 summit are: global health architecture, digital transformation and sustainable energy transition.
    At Bali, PM Modi will also meet a series of world leaders on the sidelines of the summit.
  Major world leaders such as US president Joe Biden, China’s Xi Jinping, the UK’s Rishi Sunak, and France’s Emmanuel Macron, among others, will be in attendance in Indonesia.
     The prime minister will also address the Indian community in Bali on 15 November.
      “President of Indonesia Joko Widodo will hand over the G20 Presidency to India at the closing ceremony of the Bali Summit.
  India will officially assume the G20 Presidency from 1st December 2022," according to PMO (Prime Minister’s Office).
    India will hold the presidency of the G20 for a year before handing it over to South Africa.
     PM Modi “will highlight India’s achievements, and our unwavering commitment to collectively address global challenges.
  India’s G20 Presidency will be grounded in the theme ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’, or ‘One Earth One Family One Future’, which underlines the message of equitable growth and shared future for all.
 "   The G20 is a grouping of the world’s leading developed and developing states.
  It was formed in 1999 as a meeting of finance ministers and central bankers to create a joint response to the Asian Financial crisis.
  In 2008, the grouping was elevated to the Heads of State level after the financial crisis of 2007-08.
 Download the Mint app and read premium storiesLog in to our website to save your bookmarks.
  It'll just take a moment.
 You are just one step away from creating your watchlist!Oops! Looks like you have exceeded the limit to bookmark the image.
  Remove some to bookmark this image.
 Your session has expired, please login again.
 You are now subscribed to our newsletters.
  In case you can’t find any email from our side, please check the spam folder.
 This is a subscriber only feature Subscribe Now to get daily updates on WhatsAppThe Rozgar Mela is a step towards fulfilment of the commitment of the Prime Minister to accord highest priority to employment generation      Prime Minister Narendra Modi will distribute about 71,000 appointment letters to new recruits on Tuesday via video conferencing and also address them, his office said.
    The letters will be handed over as part of the government's 'Rozgar Mela' (employment fair).
  The Rozgar Mela is a step towards fulfilment of the commitment of the Prime Minister to accord highest priority to employment generation.
  The Rozgar Mela is expected to act as a catalyst in further employment generation and provide meaningful opportunities to the youth for their empowerment and participation in national development directly.
  Earlier in October, appointment letters were handed over to 75,000 newly inducted appointees under Rozgar Mela.
    The physical copies of the appointment letters to the new appointees will be handed over at 45 locations across the country (except Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh).
  In addition to the categories of posts filled earlier, posts of teachers, lecturers, nurses, nursing officers, doctors, pharmacists, Radiographers and other technical and paramedical posts are also being filled.
  A significant number of posts are being filled by the Ministry of Home Affairs in various Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF).
    Prime Minister will also launch the Karmayogi Prarambh module.
  The module is an online orientation course for all new appointees in various Government departments.
  It will include code of conduct for Government servants, workplace ethics & integrity, human resource policies and other benefits and allowances that will help them to get acclimatized to the policies and transition smoothly into the new roles.
  They will also get an opportunity to explore other courses on igotkarmayogi.
 gov.
 in platform to enhance their knowledge, skills and competencies.
    This recruitment is done by Central Ministries and Departments themselves and through recruitment agencies like UPSC, SSC, Railway Recruitment Board.
  The selection process is simplified and technically efficient for faster recruitment.
 Download the Mint app and read premium storiesLog in to our website to save your bookmarks.
  It'll just take a moment.
 You are just one step away from creating your watchlist!Oops! Looks like you have exceeded the limit to bookmark the image.
  Remove some to bookmark this image.
 Your session has expired, please login again.
 You are now subscribed to our newsletters.
  In case you can’t find any email from our side, please check the spam folder.
 This is a subscriber only feature Subscribe Now to get daily updates on WhatsAppIndian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has visited the town of Morbi in his home state of Gujarat to see for himself the scene of Sunday's bridge collapse, which left 135 people dead.
 The 140-year-old bridge over the Machchu river gave way days after it reopened following repairs.
 Divers are continuing to search for the remains of victims.
  Nine people, including employees of a firm contracted to maintain the bridge, have been arrested.
 The 230m (754ft) bridge was built in the 1870s during British rule.
  Described by the state's tourism website as a "technological marvel", it reopened last week after being shut for months for repairs.
  Reports said hundreds of people were on the structure when it collapsed.
  Some plunged into the waters below and others clung on to the wreckage.
  Many victims were swept away by the fast-moving water.
  Officials said that most of victims were women, children and elderly people.
 After Mr Modi visited the scene on Tuesday, his office said he stressed the need "to conduct a detailed and extensive inquiry", adding: "the key learnings from the inquiry must be implemented at the earliest.
 "By Geeta Pandey, Morbi, GujaratAt the government-run civil hospital which I visited in the morning, I saw men bringing in new mattresses and clean linen for the injured patients.
  For the townspeople, life is limping back to normal - shops are reopening and there's traffic on the streets.
 But it's all quiet at Jhulto Pul, one of the town's most prominent tourist spots and the scene of Sunday's tragedy.
  The only sounds one hears there are the purring engines of rescue boats as they continue to criss-cross the muddy river waters, looking for any more bodies.
 On Monday, teams of emergency workers scoured the river in small boats, paddling through its muddy waters and the mangrove shrubs in search of the missing.
  Hundreds of locals too joined in the efforts, while distressed relatives searched for their loved ones.
 By evening, the rescuers had managed to recover 134 bodies.
  Search operations resumed on Tuesday morning.
  At least 170 people have been rescued so far.
  Gujarat has announced a day of mourning on Wednesday.
 Authorities have promised a full investigation after questions were raised about whether safety checks were carried out before the bridge was reopened.
  Police say the nine people arrested are all associated with Oreva group, the firm contracted to maintain and operate the bridge.
 They include two managers, two ticket clerks, two contractors and three security guards.
  They are being investigated for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, senior police officer Ashok Kumar Yadav said.
 The firm has been accused of multiple lapses, including its alleged failure to get a fitness certificate from the municipality.
 Oreva has not responded to questions about the collapse.
  Some are asking if top-level managers in the company will also be investigated.
 The tragedy has devastated the people of Morbi, a little town known for its thriving ceramic industry.
  On Monday, the two main crematoriums in the city were full, even as the search for survivors continued.
  In cases where entire families were wiped out in the accident, locals took it upon themselves to perform their last rites.
 Police have told the BBC the search will continue until everyone is accounted for - but some people were still missing on Tuesday.
  Siddique, who went to see the bridge with his friend, says he has been looking for him since Sunday night.
  "We were standing in the middle of the bridge when it broke.
  I clung on to a part of the broken bridge and somehow made my way out, but I don't know where my friend is," he says.
  India arrests after deadly river bridge collapseIn pictures: India bridge collapse tragedyThe US is beating China in the battle for chipsIran executes British-Iranian Akbari - state mediaBrazil top court includes Bolsonaro in riot probeChristian missionaries target the birthplace of BuddhaCanada wrestles with euthanasia for the mentally illNew Zealand egg shortage threatens pavlovaMiraculous return of Indian fishermen lost at seaThe brave man who took on a tyrant and made historyCalifornia’s devastating storm in maps and chartsChina eyes life beyond Covid despite high infectionsDoes easing US inflation point the way for the world?A life shadowed by family deaths and famous marriagesBritain's lost and legendary 'Area 51'The axed workers posting epic goodbyesThe skiers dedicated to alpine warfare© 2023 BBC.
  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.
  Read about our approach to external linking.
 During the pandemic, low data costs helped poor students attend online classes, else students would have been deprived of education for two whole years, Modi said      Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India is using technology as a weapon against poverty, as he virtually inaugurated the 25th Bengaluru Tech Summit on Wednesday morning.
    “For a long time, technology was seen as an exclusive domain, only for the 'high and mighty', India has shown how to democratize technology," Modi said.
    The mobile and data revolution had helped with the proliferation of smart phones in India, leading to more growth in rural areas over urban cities.
    "In India, technology is a force of equality and empowerment," he said citing examples of the health insurance scheme Ayushman Bharat which users can access online or the vaccination campaign against the Covid-19 virus, which was run over the online Cowin platform.
  There are also schemes that map land in rural areas using drones, which helps in reducing land disputes, he said.
    Government portals also had several online educational courses for students, he said.
    "During the pandemic, low data costs helped poor students attend online classes, without which students would have been deprived of education for two whole years.
  India is using technology as a weapon in the war against poverty," he said, in a pre-recorded message.
    Modi, who is currently attending the G-20 summit in Indonesia, spoke virtually.
    Modi also cited the GeM portal or the Government e-Marketplace portal, which helps small traders directly tender services to various government departments.
    In this way, technology has helped small businesses find big customers and reduced the scope of corruption, he said.
    “India is no more a place for red tapes, it is known for red carpet for industries, Modi said, citing improvements in FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) reforms, liberations of drone rules, the semi conductor sector, production incentive schemes in various sectors and the rise in ease of doing business.
    "Your trust and our tech talent can make things happen.
 .
 .
  as we lead the world in solving its problems," Modi added.
    Modi addedtalent pool has helped the country jump to the 40th position on the Global Innovation Index, where India earlier ranked 81 in 2015, Modi added.
    He said that the number of unicorn startups in the country has also doubled due to India's talent pool.
    Describing Bengaluru as the "home of technology", he said that the city was "number one on India's Innovation Index" and that "it is an inclusive and innovative city.
 "   Bengaluru Tech Summit is being organised by the Department of Electronics, IT, Bt, S&T, Government of Karnataka along with Software Technology Parks of India.
    The central theme of the summit is 'Tech4NexGen' and it will focus on electronics, IT, deep tech, biotech, and startups.
     Download the Mint app and read premium storiesLog in to our website to save your bookmarks.
  It'll just take a moment.
 You are just one step away from creating your watchlist!Oops! Looks like you have exceeded the limit to bookmark the image.
  Remove some to bookmark this image.
 Your session has expired, please login again.
 You are now subscribed to our newsletters.
  In case you can’t find any email from our side, please check the spam folder.
 This is a subscriber only feature Subscribe Now to get daily updates on WhatsAppThe prime minister will flag off Chennai-Mysuru Vande Bharat Express.
  Bengaluru at Kranthiveera Sangolli Rayanna (KSR) railway station      New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Karnataka on 11 November to take part in three events: flagging off the Vande Bharat Chennai-Bengaluru-Mysuru Express, inauguration of the second terminal at the Kempegowda International Airport, and unveiling of a 108-foot-tall statue of Nadaprabhu Kempegowda, the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement.
    “Prime Minister will inaugurate the Terminal 2 of Kempegowda International Airport at Bengaluru, built at a cost of around Rs.
  5000 crore.
  The terminal will double the passenger handling capacity of the airport to 5-6 crore passengers per annum, from the current capacity of about 2.
 5 crore," the PMO said.
    According to a statement by the PMO, Terminal 2 is designed as a tribute to the Garden city of Bengaluru and the passenger experience is meant to be a “walk in the garden".
  Passengers will travel through 10,000+ sqmts of green walls, hanging gardens and outdoor gardens.
  The airport has already established a benchmark in sustainability with 100% usage of renewable energy across the campus.
  Terminal 2 has been created with sustainability principles woven into the design.
     Based on the sustainability initiatives, Terminal 2 will be the largest terminal in the world to be pre certified platinum rating by US GBC (green building council) prior to commencing operations.
  The theme of ‘Naurasa’ unites all the commissioned artworks for Terminal 2.
  The artworks reflect the heritage and culture of Karnataka as well as the broader Indian ethos, it said.
    According to PMO, the prime minister will flag off Chennai-Mysuru Vande Bharat Express.
  Bengaluru at Kranthiveera Sangolli Rayanna (KSR) railway station.
  This will be the fifth Vande Bharat Express train in the country and first such train in South India.
  It will enhance connectivity between the industrial hub of Chennai and the Tech & Startup hub of Bengaluru and the famous tourist city of Mysuru.
    PM will also flag off the Bharat Gaurav Kashi Yatra train from Bengaluru KSR Railway Station.
  Karnataka is the first state to take up this train under the Bharat Gaurav scheme in which Government of Karnataka and Ministry of Railways are working together to send pilgrims from Karnataka to Kashi.
  The pilgrims will be provided comfortable stay and guidance for visiting Kashi, Ayodhya and Prayagraj.
    PM Modi will unveil 108 metre long bronze statue of Sri Nadaprabhu Kempegowda.
  It is being built to commemorate the contribution of Nadaprabhu Kempegowda, the founder of the city, towards the growth of Bengaluru.
  Conceptualized and sculpted by Ram V Sutar of Statue of Unity fame, 98 tonnes of bronze and 120 tonnes of steel have gone into making this statueDownload the Mint app and read premium storiesLog in to our website to save your bookmarks.
  It'll just take a moment.
 You are just one step away from creating your watchlist!Oops! Looks like you have exceeded the limit to bookmark the image.
  Remove some to bookmark this image.
 Your session has expired, please login again.
 You are now subscribed to our newsletters.
  In case you can’t find any email from our side, please check the spam folder.
 This is a subscriber only feature Subscribe Now to get daily updates on WhatsAppIndia is upset at a reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi by a US State Department official while defending the immunity it had extended to Saudi Arabian ruler Mohammad bin Sultan, who is facing allegations of killing journalist Jamal Khashoggi.
 “Frankly, I fail to understand how the comment on Prime Minister Modi was either relevant, necessary or contextual,” External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said responding to questions about a US official referring to Modi while explaining the reasons for granting immunity to the Saudi ruler.
 “Our two countries enjoy a very special relationship which is growing from strength to strength and we look forward to working with the US to further deepen it,” he said, referring to the bilateral ties between India and the US.
 Asked about giving immunity to the Saudi Crown Prince over the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, US State Department principal deputy spokesperson Vedant Patel said in a briefing last Friday that this is not the first time that the US has done this and it has been applied to a number of heads of state previously, including PM Modi, according to reports.
 Bagchi also said reports about the prime minister’s visit to the US in December were incorrect.
 “No proposal for a visit by the Prime Minister to the US in December has been made by our side.
  Media reports in this regard are incorrect,” Bagchi said.
 He also dismissed social media posts about “false comments” attributed to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and White House spokesperson with regard to the brief bilateral meeting between Modi and US President Joe Biden on the sidelines of the recent G-20 summit in Bali.
 “We have seen some incorrect social media posts which attribute false statements to the External Affairs Minister, who has not made any comment on this to the press or on social media.
  It also attributes false statements to the White House press secretary.
  So, I would request you all not to lend credence to such incorrect information,” Bagchi said.
 He said the prime minister met Biden on a number of occasions in the course of the Bali Summit, including a brief bilateral meeting and a trilateral meeting that involved Indonesian President Joko Widodo.
 “During these interactions, they exchanged views on a number of issues.
  Our press releases and tweets as well as the foreign secretary’s briefing in Bali encapsulates all these conversations.
 “The US side has also issued its readout of the trilateral meeting and also separately indicated that a brief bilateral meeting did take place between the two leaders,” Bagchi said.
 14 eggs a day: The diet for latest run-machine Rohan Kunnummal, selected for India A’s Bangladesh tourPiyush Goyal hails Bengaluru's new landmarkBengaluru's new landmark!PM @NarendraModi ji inaugurates the world-class Terminal 2 at Kempegowda International Airport.
  pic.
 twitter.
 com/l6BHY2r5yYKarnataka's double engine govt is focussing equally on physical as well as social infrastructureKarnataka's double engine govt is focussing equally on both physical as well as social infrastructure.
 Following the pro-poor stance of govt, over 8 lakh pucca houses have been sanctioned in the state.
  Also, over 30 lakh rural households are given the water pipelines.
 - PM Modi pic.
 twitter.
 com/OkYRnLut7zModi inaugurates ‘Statue of Prosperity’ in Bengaluru in honour of Sri Nadaprabhu KempegowdaPM @narendramodi inaugurated the ‘Statue of Prosperity’ in Bengaluru in honour of Sri Nadaprabhu Kempegowda.
  pic.
 twitter.
 com/2PZ0WcWm7jThe role of Sri Nadaprabhu Kempegowda in the making of Bengaluru is unparalleled.
  He is remembered as a visionary who always put the welfare of people above everything else.
  Honoured to inaugurate the ‘Statue of Prosperity’ in Bengaluru.
  pic.
 twitter.
 com/zoMIXIYFf1"Our government is also building new airports in the country.
  Before 2014, there were around 70 airports in the country.
  Now their number has increased to more than 140.
  Growing, these airports are increasing the business potential of our cities.
  They are also creating new opportunities for the youth," said PM in his address"Last year, Karnataka was a pioneer in attracting FDI in the country.
  The investment isn't limited to just the IT sector, it's spread from biotech to defence manufacturing," saidPM Modi.
 'Vande Bharat is not just a new train.
  It is also representative of a new India,' says PM Modi in BengaluruFor India's advancement, along with physical infrastructure we need social infrastructure: Modi"For India's advancement, along with physical infrastructure we need social infrastructure.
  I am glad Karnataka has been doing this," said Modi.
 During pandemic, Karnataka got investment of Rs 4 lakh crore, says ModiWhen the entire country was hit by Covid-19 pandemic, Karnataka received an investment of Rs 4 lakh crore, said Modi.
  "All the development and investment in Karnataka is possible because of the double-engine govenment here," Modi said.
 Bengaluru represents India's start-up spirit: ModiKSR, Cantonment and other Bengaluru railway stations are set to be renovated: ModiBengaluru has played a great role in building Indian startup ecosystem, says PM ModiKIA Terminal 2 is more modern than what it is seen in photos, says PM Modi in BengaluruPrime Minister Modi addresses the public rallyDelighted to be among the zestful citizens of Bengaluru.
  Addressing a programme.
  https://t.
 co/Y8G3qwygNZKarnataka CM addresses the rally nowPralhad Joshi addresses the rallyWATCH | PM Modi to address public meeting in BengaluruLive : ಬೆಂಗಳೂರಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಸಾರ್ವಜನಿಕ ಸಭೆಯನ್ನುದ್ದೇಶಿಸಿ ಪ್ರಧಾನಿ ಶ್ರೀ @narendramodi #KarnatakaWelcomesModi https://t.
 co/h63matRpjNPM Modi unveils Nadaprabhu Kempegowda statue near KIALive : ಪ್ರಧಾನಿ ಶ್ರೀ @narendramodi ನಾಡಪ್ರಭು ಕೆಂಪೇಗೌಡರ ಕಂಚಿನ ಪ್ರತಿಮೆ ಅನಾವರಣ#KarnatakaWelcomesModi #ಬನ್ನಿನಾಡಕಟ್ಟೋಣ #StatueofProsperity https://t.
 co/TNOCOUgaOTThank you for memorable welcome, says Modi as he interacts with crowdThank you Bengaluru for the memorable welcome to this dynamic city.
  pic.
 twitter.
 com/TFOcj4XwToIn Pics | Bengaluru Airport's swanky garden-themed Terminal 2 inaugurated by PM ModiSee more photos herePM inaugurates Terminal 2 of Kempegowda International AirportKarnataka | Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates Terminal 2 of Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru pic.
 twitter.
 com/8HAmANf5SNPM to inaugurate KIA Terminal 2 shortly, traffic restrictions eased in part of cityPM Modi waves at crowd from car on his way to attend scheduled eventsPeople come on street in Bengaluru to shower love and affection to PM @narendramodi pic.
 twitter.
 com/8oWQGmH7MtVande Bharat Express at Bangalore Cantonmentafter it was inaugurated by PM today.
 Traffic curbs inside Bengaluru City lifted, restrictions apply towards KIAL from Yelahanka"Traffic curbs inside Bengaluru City have been lifted.
  Traffic restrictions apply only towards KIAL from Yelahanka," Bengaluru City Commissioner of Police said in a tweet.
 Paid tributes to Maharshi Valmiki Ji in Bengaluru today morning.
  pic.
 twitter.
 com/CreEfRB8TbPrime Minister flags off Vande Bharat and Bharat Gaurav Kashi Darshan ExpressLive : ಪ್ರಧಾನಿ ಶ್ರೀ @narendramodi ಅವರಿಂದ ವಂದೇ ಭಾರತ್‌ ಎಕ್ಸ್‌ಪ್ರೆಸ್‌ ಮತ್ತು ಭಾರತ್‌ ಗೌರವ್‌ ಕಾಶಿ ದರ್ಶನ ರೈಲುಗಳಿಗೆ ಚಾಲನೆ #KarnatakaWelcomesModi #VandeBharatExpress #BharatGauravKashiDarshan https://t.
 co/rozneDMPA1PM Modi pays tributes to Kanaka Dasa on his jayanti and Maharshi ValmikiLive : ಪ್ರಧಾನಿ ಶ್ರೀ @narendramodi ಅವರಿಂದ ಸಂತ ಕನಕದಾಸ ಮತ್ತು ಮಹರ್ಷಿ ವಾಲ್ಮೀಕಿ ಪ್ರತಿಮೆಗಳಿಗೆ ಪುಷ್ಪಾರ್ಚನೆ #KarnatakaWelcomesModi #KanakaJayanthi https://t.
 co/ca1wrd6c09PM Modi lands in BengaluruPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday arrived in the city.
  On arrival at HAL Airport here, Modi was received by Karnataka Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and several of his cabinet colleagues, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, state BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel, BJP Parliamentary Board member B S Yediyurappa, party legislators and officials.
 Karnataka | Prime Minister Narendra Modi landed in Bengaluru a short while ago, where he was received by Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot, CM Basavaraj Bommai, Union Minister & BJP's Dharwad MP Pralhad Joshi, along with other dignitaries as well as officials.
  pic.
 twitter.
 com/iDeubzZWpWThe 108 feet statue of Nadaprabhu Kempegowda at Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Modi today.
  (Credit: PTI Photo)I look forward to being in the vibrant city of Bengaluru tomorrow, 11th November.
  I am honoured to be getting the opportunity to unveil a statue of Sri Nadaprabhu Kempegowda.
 PM to inaugurate glitzy Terminal-2 of Bengaluru airport, flyers all set for a green walkWalk through a garden before boarding your flight.
 The glitzy Terminal-2 of the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) awaiting inauguration seeks to give this pleasant experience to travellers, as the Rs 5,000 crore initiative has incorporated the concept of a "Terminal-in-a-garden", a first of its kind.
  Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the airport Friday.
  (PTI)Bengaluru all set to host PM Narendra Modi on his packed visitRailway staff clean Vande Bharat Express at Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Railway Station on Thursday, which is awaiting to be flagged off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi today from platform 7.
  The train is set to run between Bengaluru-Mysore-Chennai.
 Police personnel plan bandobast at Freedom Park on Thursday ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the city.
 BBMP's mist cannon machine sprays water near Vidhana Soudha on Thursday ahead of PM Modi's visit.
 BBMP staff clean gravel from the newly-asphalted Seshadri Road on Anand Rao circle flyover for PM's program.
 6,000 police personnel for PM Modi's security in B'luru on FridayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will arrive in Bengaluru on Friday to take part in five events, including a public rally, and around 6,000 police personnel will be deputed to ensure the security, said police.
 PM Modi will arrive at 9 am and will leave for Madurai Airport in Tamil Nadu at 1:45 pm.
 During his whirlwind tour spanning about four hours, PM Modi will take part in five programmes, including the inauguration of a 108-feet tall bronze statue of the founder of Bengaluru city Kempegowda.
  (IANS)PM to launch 'Vande Bharat,' first semi-fast train of the SouthThe 'Vande Bharat' train from Mysuru to Chennai via Bengaluru would be flagged off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday.
  (PTI)PM Modi’s itinerary for Bengaluru visit:10 am:Arrival, HAL Airport10.
 50 am:Flagging off of Vande Bharat train and Bharat Gaurav Kashi Darshan, KSR Bengaluru Station11.
 20 am:Travel from Air Force Training Command Centre, Hebbal, to KIA11.
 50 am:Inauguration of Terminal 2, KIA12.
 20 pm:Dedication of 108-ft statue of Nadaprabhu Kempegowdanear KIA12.
 50 pm:Public eventnear KIAPM Modi has packed schedule for B'luru tripChief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday described that it is a ‘divine coincidence’ that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was unveiling the 108-foot-tall statue of prosperity of Kempegowda on the day of Kanakadasa Jayanti.
 Read morePM Modi in Bengaluru on Friday; KIA flyers brace for 3-hour road chaosThe Bengaluru Traffic Police (BTP) will restrict vehicular movement on the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) elevated corridor between 10 am and 1 pm on Friday, coinciding with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s scheduled visit to the airport.
 Read moreBengaluru woman pretends to be a cop, extorts 'bondas'Old NASA satellite falls harmlessly from sky off AlaskaGareth Bale announces retirement from footballR-Day Parade: CRPF's all-women contingent to take part'KGF 3': Makers hints new hero could play Rocky BhaiTrivialising Rahul Gandhi and other conundrumsHow to make retirement planning simpler National  Karnataka  Bengaluru  Sports  Business Multimedia Opinion  Entertainment Child, mother killed in B'luru metro pillar collapseTN Guv stokes fresh controversyJoshimath a warningDH photo galleriesDH PicksLatest storiesTrending newsDownload DH APPServicesOur group sitesDownload DH APP We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve user experience.
  This includes personalising content and advertising.
  By continuing to use our site, you accept our use of cookies, revised Privacy Policy.
  We use cookies.
 